# Tutorial for How to Use All Demos Included

__Bouncy Balls__  
A simple game where you just click on the screen. Balls will bounce around while the background colors incrementally change colors. If the balls reach nearly 0 vertical velocity, the bounce will reset. Balls will always be the complete opposite color of the background.
  
  
__Dodge__  
A game where you dodge the particles that spawn from all edges and float in the window. The speed of each particle is random and will increase over time. Once a wave is completed, the speed will reset, however, the difficulty will increase after each wave. Special powerups will appear randomly every few seconds as a small block in specific colors. Once you collect them, they will appear on the bottom left of the screen. Each powerup will be used in the order they are picked up and there is a limit to how many you can store. Powerups include: nuke(clear particles), increased speed, shrink, and invulnerability. Each powerup has its unique duration. How to Play: You can use the <arrow keys> to move, <space bar> to pause and resume gameplay, and <ctrl> to use a powerup. The game will reset when the player touches a particle. You may warp from one side to another by passing through the edge of the window. A highscore will be determined at the end of each game.
  
  
__FPS Test__  
This is a demo where the objective is to click on the ball that bounces inside the window. Each click will be counted and the accuracy of the clicks is calculated. Each time the player clicks in the window, a colored marker will temporarily appear to show where the click happened. If the ball was clicked, the color will be red, otherwise the color is green. Also, when the player successfully clicks on the ball, the crosshair will change image and the ball will change trajectory and speed based on the click location. After a period of time, the ball will revert back to a set speed.
  
  
__HP Bar Demo__  
This is a HUD Demo for use in a potential game utilizing aspects from different games such as Overwatch and Kingdom Hearts. The demo demonstrates gradients, position, angle, and size calculations, and the use of primitive shapes. Changing the values in the source code will display fewer and larger chunks similar to the HP Bar in Overwatch with each bar representing 50 units. The application will properly position the HUD based on the window size. The demo itself is very simple. It slowly decrements the two bars on the right and shows the current value. The circle around the player's image will highlight in yellow to demonstrate levels and experience point increasing. For a more complete demonstration, compile the source code located in the Java folder.
  
  
__Keys__  
Inspired by Deemo, a rhythm game for mobile devices and used as a potential demo for a more polished game idea. The game explicitly shows hotkeys mapped to a lane. The goal of the game is to time your keyboard presses when a white box touches the yellow line. The accuracy is recorded on the top left. Over time, the speed at which each box spawns will increase.
  
  
__MapleStory Desktop__  
An imitation of a MapleStory (Nexon) character as if it were in the actual game. The concept behind this game is to provide the user with the same experience as playing the game, but on the user's Desktop. Initially, the character will perform an idle standing animation and will revert to it when no keys are pressed and the character is not in motion. Hotkeys include the arrow keys, the space bar, ctrl, alt, and esc, each of which correspond to the actual game's default hotkeys. The <arrow> keys allow the user to move the character in any direction. A ladder or rope can also be climbed. To do this, press the <alt> key to make the character jump in the air and then press the <up> key. The character will now be in climbing position, which only permits vertical movement. If the character touches the ground, it will revert back to the ground status. Alternatively, you can press a horizontal directional key and them <alt> to jump off the ladder. Once the character hits the ground, it will revert back to the ground status. You can crouch while on the ground by pressing the <down> key, however, jumping is disabled when crouching. A special mechanic added includes the ability to change the falling status to a standing status allowing for the character to stand on any position desired. Just press the <shift> key after jumping off a ladder. While the character is standing above the ground, you may either press the <alt> key to jump up and then fall or press a combination of <down + alt> to down jump. Pressing the <ctrl> key will perform one of three random attack animations, similar to the game itself. Performing the combination of <down + ctrl> will make the character go through the crouch attack animation. The <space> key will toggle two different modes: manual and automatic. The manual mode is what has been explained above, while the automatic mode will enable the character to detect the mouse's location and navigate to it as fast as possible. Once the character reaches the mouse pointer, it will sit and wait for the mouse to move somewhere else. Moving the mouse pointer below the screen will force the character to stay crouched once it hits the bottom of the screen. One other functionality added to the application. is the ability to drag the character with the mouse anywhere on the screen during any mode. The function is pixel based instead of a rectangle for click accuracy. If the application is out of focus, hotkeys will not register. If that is the case, the application will highlight in the taskbar to notify the user. The <esc> key will exit the application.
  
  
__MRTool__  
A tool designed for a private server of MapleStory which incorporates timers and the JSoup library. The Main Tab allows you to change your username that the tool will reference the server's database and visit specific links on the site. The Vote tab will display a countdown of when the user will be allowed to vote again on the site or notify the user that the username is invalid. The Leech tab will perform calculations per second of how much meso(currency) a buyer will pay for leech (xp gaining service) rather than relying on the hour system. It allows the user to pause and resume the timer at any time and display the elapsed time. Once a session has been completed, the user can specify in the fields the start/end level and xp amount to calculate the average amount of XP gained for either the leech seller or the leech buyer to determine the efficiency of the service. The bossing tab has not been coded. The FM (Marketplace) tab allows the user to select a Channel (server) and room (map) to show where their store is located. Once the Start timer button is pressed, the data will be stored into the ini file and a 24hr timer will initiate. The info will be displayed on the UI and will load upon reopening the application. The field titled "Meso Amount" will allow a user to enter a specific amount of mesos and then the taxes for each specific trade option will be calculated based on the tier (specified in the trade window in-game). The Arrows label describes the amount of arrows required to avoid all tax paid during a transaction to ensure maximum profit.
  
  
__Patience__  
A simple, yet advanced game of rock, paper, scissors. Three buttons are available: attack, charge, and block. The attack button is only enabled once a player charges up an attack. Charges can stack, but increases the risk at which the player faces because the CPU can either block the highly charged attack or attack the player during the turn. If the player or CPU loses all HP, the game will end and the replay button will appear. HP Bars are displayed on each side of the UI and all decisions are displayed on a log in the center.
  
  
__Runner__  
Inspired by FlappyBird, a mobile one touch game. In this game, you have two hotkeys: space and enter. The space key will allow you to jump and the enter key will restart the game (only after a loss). The goal of the game is to touch the top of as many platforms as possible. Not all platforms have to be touched, but each one that is will turn green signalling that it has been lit. If you touch the side of a platform or fall to the ground, you lose. The more platforms you touched in the beginning, the higher chance you will receive a better score because the speed at which the player moves is increased slowly.
  
  
__Stacker__  
This game tests camera movements, moving platforms, simple AI targetting and collisions. The goal of the game is to climb as high as possible. The gameplay is simple, use the arrow keys to move and the ctrl key to phase through a platform. Each platform will move left and right at a ransom speed until it has been touched once. After a certain number of platforms has been touched, more will spawn. As soon as a platform has been touched, it will stay there for the duration of the game. Plan your jumps so that if you fall, you don't fall too far. Yellow AI will targed your position and zig-zag towards you until they pass your position. If you are hit, then you will turn pink and phase through all the platforms temporarily. You may jump and crouch for increased speed, reduced size, and reduce your chances of being hit. If you press and hold the <down> key while on a platform, you will turn yellow and become invulnerable until releasing the key. Occasionally, you will see blue platforms which will freeze all untouched platforms temporarily allowing you to quickly reach them.
  
  
__Star Popper__  
A simple application that spawns a bunch of random circles (stars) that gravitate towards a random position in the window. When they collide, they combine in size until a certain size where they combust and force a different position to be set. At the same time, the background color will change giving it an almost firework effect. If you constantly move your mouse within the window, the stars will move towards the pointer location. The number of popped stars is recorded as well as the current number of stars visible in the window.
  
  
__UI Test__  
A very minimalistic test to see if I could create a working UI within the JFrame. There are two buttons: Activate and Quit. The Activate button opens a sub-typed UI window that is only visible within the JFrame that allows you to interact with it. Once the UI is closed, it triggers the Activate button to be enabled again. The Quit button exit the program.
  
  
__War__  
A demo inspired by Battle Cats, another mobile game. The controls are simple: Click on a button with a specific value and a character will appear and move towards the opposing tower. The buttons on the left are the player's side and the buttons on the right represent the opponent's side. The buttons on the left reduce the power level, sort of like an energy bar that recharges over time. The buttons on the right will recharge the player's power, but will also spawn an enemy entity. Damage, speed, and delay are all attributes of an entity and are determined by the button pressed. Once the player and enemy entities collide, a calculation will be made in set intervals based on the specific entity to deal damage to the entity taking the hit. Once an entity is defeated, it is destroyed and allows the other to move forward. When the tower is destroyed the game ends. Unfortunately, the demo does not have a win/lose condition and was only meant to test the other mechanics.
